Okay.
So in this lesson, I'd like to add one more test for our job listings component and it is going to
be for this mounted lifecycle.
Look, we actually do not have a test yet that is testing the interaction between the component and
the dispatch method on the view next store or in our scenario, the mock object that is playing the
role of the store.
What do we want to verify here?
I argue two things.
Number one, that we are invoking the dispatch method, and number two, that we are passing at the
right string argument.
All right.
We really don't care about what the store is doing.
We just care that we are communicating with the store.
We had a very similar test a while ago when we had an Axios method call in here.
We were simply testing the interaction with Axios, right?
But we obviously we move that logic to review store.
So now we have that additional layer in between and we have to test that connection, the connection
between job listings and our store.
So right here in my job listings component file, let's create this test a little bit further up, maybe
right below the create config function.
The only reason I'm doing this is because it kind of makes logical sense.
This is one of the earliest things that happens.
The component mounts first before it does any of these responsibilities.
So I'm just going to put it right here.
It really doesn't matter where we put it.
I'm just going to add a new described look.
And this is describing what happens when the component mounts, some describing this scenario or context
under which I'm declaring my assertion.
And what do we want to assert?
How about it makes call to fetch jobs from API?
Maybe the second half of that test description knows a little bit too much about what the component
is doing, because really the line of separation to me is simply that the component is talking to View
X.
It doesn't know what fetch jobs technically means.
But again, from a human readable perspective, this describes the value of the component and what view
X is going to do for us.
So even though it requires, it almost reaches a little bit too much into view X to know what it's doing.
I think from a reader perspective, it benefits somebody who wants to understand what job listings is
doing when it mounts.
So I think it's okay to be a little bit over descriptive here and know a little bit too much about the
U.S..
I think it's okay.
Okay.
So we're going to need to shell out our job listings component and we're going to need to pass that
a configuration object using our create config factory function, which itself will require a route
object and a store object.
So let's begin by creating a route object.
So constant dollar sign route and we're going to use the create root factory function that we have above.
If I scroll up as a reminder, here it is and we don't care about any of these additional params or
properties.
We don't want to specify them, we don't care about them.
So we can just rely on the default factory function.
And that is the beauty of our factory design is we need some kind of route for the component, but we
don't care about it specifics.
So I'm just going to use that factory function and let it take care of that responsibility.
Now, in regards to my store, what I am going to do here is I'm going to create a constant to reference
my eventual dispatch method.
Technically speaking, we do have reference to that dispatch just function right here in the return
store, but I want to write it in line just so I communicate to my future reader that dispatch has some
importance in this in this specific test.
So here's what I'm going to do.
I'm going to declare a dispatch constant.
I'm going to set it evil.
Trade equals equal, not evil.
Set an equal to a just marked function.
Why are we using a just mock function?
Because it can track if it's been invoked and with what arguments.
And that's what we want to test.
We want to mount the component and make sure that the dispatch method has been called with the right
string argument.
So what I'm going to do here is I'm going to create my mock store, and in order to do that, I'm going
to use my create store factory function.
And in previous lessons, we were really concerned with modifying the state right here in this test.
We don't care about the state, so we're totally fine going with this default option.
But we do want to overwrite dispatch to be our own local version of dispatch just because we have that
constant in line.
And then we can very easily test that, that exact just function.
The one referenced by our dispatch constant has been invoked.
Right?
So right here I'm going to provide my config argument to create store and I'm going to make sure I pass
in a property of dispatch, which is of course going to be our dispatch mock function that we declared
in line.
I'm using that Essex index here, so we're going to get a store with some jobs on it, but also a dispatch
method.
That is this thing right here.
Okay.
The next thing I'm going to do, of course, is shallow amount, my job listings component.
Then I need to provide my configuration object for my just test.
So I'm going to invoke the create config factory function.
What does that need?
It needs a route object and a store.
So now we're going to provide dollar sign root and dollar sign store.
Those will become the respective properties on the component, this dollar sign root and this the dollar
sign store.
Again, they're not real objects as we're going to use in the real world from view router and view ax.
Rather they're simpler mock JavaScript objects that will play the role of those things and we don't
even need to assign the return value shall amount to any constant or variable because we don't care
about doing anything.
We just care that after this show amount we expect this life cycle hook to have been run.
And if it ran, then we know that we should have talked to the dispatch method on our store, which
of course is this function right here.
So immediately after this component runs, I can simply say expect dispatch to have been called with.
As a reminder, this verifies not only that dispatch has been called, but that it's been called with
the correct arguments.
And we, of course, expect the argument of fetch underscore jobs.
The reason I don't want to import this constant right here and use it in my tests is because if we were
using a real TDD approach, we wouldn't have our code ready beforehand.
We would write a test just like this and then make the implementation happen.
So I want to make sure I write exactly what I want.
Independent of my actual real world implementation code.
So I'm going to write this string in line.
I'm going to save this and let's see what happens.
And we do get a passing test.
Let's verify that it's not a false positive.
The way we can do that, of course, is by commenting out this line that will prevent dispatch from
ever having been called.
If I save this and let my test we rerun.
We should get the expected error of exactly what we see here.
Number of calls.
Zero.
Just is telling us, hey, you told me this batch should be invoked with the argument fetch jobs.
But I did not see any calls.
That function.
That function was never invoked.
So that confirms that logic is correctly working because we do see an actual failure that we can then
correct by bringing this code back in.
That's always a good idea to make sure you see a failure before you see the pass.
Just to make sure it's not an accidental false positive that is passing for some random reason that
is not related to the test.
Right.
If we wrote TDD, we would never have this functionality from the first place.
So we would verify that and then verify that our solution solves the problem for us.
Right.
This was just another way, a more roundabout way of doing it, but keeping in the spirit of test driver
development.
All right.
That's all there is to cover in this lesson.
So I will see you in the next one.